Why does TypeScript not complain
in that example, where I'm passing
a number into the promise constructor
whether the result is any?
Yeah, it's kinda mysterious, right?
So I'm gonna go back to that example
because it is quite shocking, right?
Let me let me take us back here.
It's this one right here.
Like the reason I show this to you
is because n E's are dangerous.
And the fact that in this case, just to
recall, like what stage of the code we
were at here, we had not given
arguments a type and therefore,
like what is a plus b even mean when a or
b theoretically could be anything right?
We don't know.
So result ends up being in any.
Now, the point here is
that an any does not just
cause problems that
have to do with itself.
When an enemy is passed
into well that flexibility
will compromise that well typed code.
So in this case,
an any variable can hold anything,
and they can also masquerade as anything.
That's a useful way to think about this.
It's a wild card It can accept anything,
but
it can also present itself as anything.
And in this case, that's gonna cause
problems, even if your types are really,
really good about where that
any goes where it enters into.
So that's the liability of
having something like this.
Hopefully that makes sense.
It can masquerade as anything.
Louise making a comment
about my unit test remarks.
Yes I agree with you that,
the guarantees and
the checking that type script gives
you in a, in a declarative way, right?
These constraints, they help avoid
defensive programming to some extent, but
when we start building type cards, you may
accuse me of defensive programming again.
So I wish to withhold your judgment for
the time being.
All right and he says much of the job
of TypeScript is about type annotation.
The JS doc introduced way before
TypeScript was inter invented.
Let me rephrase this question.
So, Annice you're basically asking,
like, why do we say that there's so
much value that comes
along with TypeScript.
When you could have done some of
these things in the JS doc world.
That's a very fair point.
But let me show you this.
Let me show you what you could
have done in the JS doc world.
So Annice is referring to
the fact that I could have done.
Sorry I always forget
the ordering of this.
Let's hover over these tool tips.
Oops maybe I'm doing this wrong.
I think it's like that.
Let me try one of each, see if it works.
I think the fact that it's running in the
type playground is hurting us a little bit
here, But
take it from me,
I really think it's this B and A number.
So you could have done
something like this.
And if this were a more
normal environment,
we would have seen that like a and
b are regarded as numbers.
But here's something that JS doc would
have also let you do something like
that right where you forget to add
a type for one of your variables and
defining more complicated types
in JS Doc is really complicated,
things with type params and
stuff like that.
So really what JSDoc was missing was
strong enforcement of alignment.
Between the comments that you're
writing and the code that they were
documenting that that was hard, and
for that matter within your function,
JS doc was probably not helping you
much unless you're being extremely
vigilant about saying like result
equal saying Something like this.
This level of JS doc might have
gotten you a long way, but
I don't come across too
many code bases to do this.
It's a lot of vigilance required
to keep all this up today.
Okay, I am actually gonna
proceed because a lot of
these other questions I know
we're going to get to later on.
Nita asks what is a use case for any.
We're gonna talk about that in
the section called Top and Bottom tyes,
dedicated discussion around any and
it's kind of a part of network and
unknown which is kind of
like a special program.
So with that let's pick back up.
Now that we've covered variables and
basic functions,
it's time to talk about collections.
These mutable value types.
And in JavaScript,
these are objects, arrays, and
something called Tuples which
are a special type of array.
So we're gonna learn how to type
all of these different things.
And let's begin with objects.
So when we talk about the types
of objects, they are two things,
what properties are on this object?
And what are the types
of these properties?
And that applied recursively
could describe deeply
nested objects, or very small objects.
I mean that that's the core principle.
Some people refer to this as a shape,
right?
What properties do you have and
what kinds of things can I store
under each of the properties?
So let's just start with
a conceptual model of a car,
which we could describe as
like a 2002 Toyota Corolla.
It has a year a make and
a model, the make and
the model are going to
end up being strings.
And the year it's gonna
end up being a number.
So we can describe the type
of this object as follows.
And again,
we're seeing the same syntax, value, or
like property name or
variable name, colon type, and
we're creating something that looks
a lot like JavaScript objects syntax.
But instead of key value,
we have key type.
We can actually use this colon type syntax
with this structure that we've created.
If we hover over a car,
we can see that it's stuck, right?
So just as before where we were saying,
age colon number, or
end time colon date,
we're seeing car colon and
then this big thing that we've created and
that's a type of object.
If we wanted to use this to describe
an argument, we can do this.
And we can see that as we reach into
this object and we do car.make,
make as a string, model is a string,
and year is a number.
So this is where we're getting
that nice validation and
these would show up in
autocomplete as well.
If you did car.m,
you would see that making model drop down.